Improved PolyfaceQuery.ts (#6725)
iTwin/itwinjs-core: docs/changehistory/NextVersion.md

---
# NextVersion

Table of contents:
- [Geometry](#geometry)
  - [Convex check using dihedral angles](#convex-check-using-dihedral-angles)

## Geometry

### Convex check using dihedral angles

`PolyfaceQuery.dihedralAngleSummary` old behavior was to return `1` if the mesh was planar (i.e., all dihedral angles between facet normals were zero). Therefore, `PolyfaceQuery.isConvexByDihedralAngleCount` old behavior was to return `true` for planar meshes (i.e., the check would say a planar mesh is convex which is not correct).

We changed the behavior so now `PolyfaceQuery.dihedralAngleSummary` returns `0` for planar meshes and therefore, `PolyfaceQuery.isConvexByDihedralAngleCount` returns `false`.

> Please note that `PolyfaceQuery.dihedralAngleSummary` old behavior was to return `0` if
> - mesh had mixed dihedral angles.
> - mesh had edge(s) with more than 2 adjacent facets.
> - `ignoreBoundaries = false` and mesh had edge(s) with 1 adjacent facet (boundary edges).
> 
> The new behavior returns `-2` for such cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full changes to the iTwinjs 4.0 method `PolyfaceQuery.dihedralAngleSummary` are as follows. When all dihedral angles are zero (and `ignoreBoundaries===true`), this method used to return 1 but now returns 0. When the signs of the dihedral angles are mixed, or a non-manifold condition or undefined normal is detected, this method used to return 0 but now returns -2.
```
